docs/README.md, before:

# User Guide
1. [Introduction](#1-introduction)
2. [Quick Start](#2-quick-start)
3. [Features](#3-features)  
  3.1. [Viewing list of commands](#31-viewing-list-of-commands) : `help`   
  3.2. [Adding a new task](#32-adding-a-new-task) : `todo`, `event`, `deadline`  
  3.3. [Listing all tasks](#33-listing-all-tasks) : `list`  
  3.4. [Marking a task as done](#34-marking-a-task-as-done) : `done`   
  3.5. [Deleting a task](#35-deleting-a-task) : `delete`    
  3.6. [Searching for a task by keyword(s)](#36-searching-a-task-by-keyword) : `find`  
  3.7. [Clearing the window](#37-clearing-the-window) : `clear`    
  3.8. [Exiting the program](#37-exiting-the-program) : `bye`
   
## 1. Introduction
Duke is a Personal Assistant Chatbot that aids users in keeping track of various tasks.

## 2. Setting Up
1. Ensure that you have Java `11` or above installed on your computer. 
2. Download the latest `duke-0.2.jar` [here.](https://github.com/bruceskellator/duke/releases/tag/A-Release)
3. Copy the file to a folder. This will be the home folder for Duke.
4. Double-click on the `duke-0.2.jar` to start the app.  
The GUI should appear in a few seconds.

![Screenshot of Duke GUI](https://github.com/bruceskellator/duke/blob/master/docs/Ui.png?raw=true)

6. Once the app has started, key in a valid command and hit `enter`.
Alternatively, you can click the `send` button to execute it.
7. You are now good to go!   
The list of tasks is saved to the file every
time a command executes.   
Therefore, you can simply close the app without losing any changes.  
Alternatively, the `bye` command also closes the program.

## 3. Features

### 3.1 Viewing list of commands
Displays a comprehensive list of all valid commands as well as what they do.

Format: `help`

### 3.2 Adding a new task
Creates a new task and adds it to the current list.

A task can be one of three types: a `todo`, `deadline` or `event` task.

Format: 
* `todo [description]` 
* `deadline [description] /by [date-time]` 
* `event [description] /at [date-time]`

For a `todo` task, only a description is needed but for `deadline` and `event`
tasks, both a **description** is needed as well as a **date-time** value,   
and these values have to be demarcated by ` /at ` for event tasks and ` /by ` for deadline tasks.

**Examples of valid date-time values:**  
* `3 October 2019 2359`
* `03/10/2019 2359`
* `03102019 11:59PM`
* `03 10 2019 11:59AM`

Examples of valid commands: 

* `todo run 2.4km`  
Creates a `todo` task

* `deadline submit assignment /by 5 November 2019 0900`  
Creates an `event` task

* `event play basketball /at 05/11/2019 9:00AM`  
Creates a `deadline` task

### 3.3 Listing all tasks
Displays the current list of all tasks.

Format: `list`

### 3.4 Marking a task as done
Marks the task with the specified task-number as done.
The task number of a task is indicated by its position
in the list of tasks. (starting from 1)  
This number can be displayed by using the `list` command.

Format: `done [task-number]`

Example:
* `done 3`  
Marks the 3rd task in the list as done.

### 3.5 Deleting a task
Removes the task with the specified task-number from the current list.  
This command has similar syntax as the `done` command.

Format: `delete [task-number]`

Example:
* `delete 4`  
Deletes the 4th task in the list.

### 3.6 Searching for a task by keyword(s)
Finds and displays tasks whose description contains the given keyword(s)  
Multiple keywords may be specified, delimited by a **single** space.

**Note**: 
* The order of the keywords do **not** matter.
* A task description is a match only if it contains **all** the keywords.

Example:   
* `find boss guild event`

Finds task with description: `help guild register for the boss event`

Format: `find [keywords delimited by a single space]`

### 3.7 Clearing the window
Clears the window of all dialog-boxes and outputs a message.

Format: `clear`

### 3.8 Exiting the program
Displays the exit message and closes the program.

Format: `bye`

Commit message:

Added undoing, redoing commands to User Guide

docs/README.md, after:

# User Guide
1. [Introduction](#1-introduction)
2. [Quick Start](#2-quick-start)
3. [Features](#3-features)  
  3.1. [Viewing list of commands](#31-viewing-list-of-commands) : `help`   
  3.2. [Adding a new task](#32-adding-a-new-task) : `todo`, `event`, `deadline`  
  3.3. [Listing all tasks](#33-listing-all-tasks) : `list`  
  3.4. [Marking a task as done](#34-marking-a-task-as-done) : `done`   
  3.5. [Deleting a task](#35-deleting-a-task) : `delete`    
  3.6. [Searching for a task by keyword(s)](#36-searching-a-task-by-keyword) : `find`  
  3.7. [Undoing and redoing commands](#37-undoing-and-redoing-commands) : `undo`, `redo`        
  3.8. [Clearing the window](#37-clearing-the-window) : `clear`    
  3.9. [Exiting the program](#37-exiting-the-program) : `bye`
   
## 1. Introduction
Duke is a Personal Assistant Chatbot that aids users in keeping track of various tasks.

## 2. Setting Up
1. Ensure that you have Java `11` or above installed on your computer. 
2. Download the latest `duke-0.2.jar` [here.](https://github.com/bruceskellator/duke/releases/tag/A-Release)
3. Double-click on the `duke-0.2.jar` to start the app.  
The GUI should appear in a few seconds.
    
    ![Screenshot of Duke GUI](https://github.com/bruceskellator/duke/blob/master/docs/Ui.png?raw=true)

4. Once the app has started, key in a valid command and hit `enter`.
Alternatively, you can click the `send` button to execute it.
5. You are now good to go!   
The list of tasks is saved to the file every
time a command executes.   
Therefore, you can simply close the app without losing any changes.  
Alternatively, the `bye` command also closes the program.

## 3. Features

### 3.1 Viewing list of commands
Displays a comprehensive list of all valid commands as well as what they do.

Format: `help`

### 3.2 Adding a new task
Creates a new task and adds it to the current list.

A task can be one of three types: a `todo`, `deadline` or `event` task.

Format: 
* `todo [description]` 
* `deadline [description] /by [date-time]` 
* `event [description] /at [date-time]`

For a `todo` task, only a description is needed but for `deadline` and `event`
tasks, both a **description** is needed as well as a **date-time** value,   
and these values have to be demarcated by ` /at ` for event tasks and ` /by ` for deadline tasks.

**Examples of valid date-time values:**  
* `3 October 2019 2359`
* `03/10/2019 2359`
* `03102019 11:59PM`
* `03 10 2019 11:59AM`

Examples of valid commands: 

* `todo run 2.4km`  
Creates a `todo` task

* `deadline submit assignment /by 5 November 2019 0900`  
Creates an `event` task

* `event play basketball /at 05/11/2019 9:00AM`  
Creates a `deadline` task

### 3.3 Listing all tasks
Displays the current list of all tasks.

Format: `list`

### 3.4 Marking a task as done
Marks the task with the specified task-number as done.
The task number of a task is indicated by its position
in the list of tasks. (starting from 1)  
This number can be displayed by using the `list` command.

Format: `done [task-number]`

Example:
* `done 3`  
Marks the 3rd task in the list as done.

### 3.5 Deleting a task
Removes the task with the specified task-number from the current list.  
This command has similar syntax as the `done` command.

Format: `delete [task-number]`

Example:
* `delete 4`  
Deletes the 4th task in the list.

### 3.6 Searching for a task by keyword(s)
Finds and displays tasks whose description contains the given keyword(s)  
Multiple keywords may be specified, delimited by a **single** space.

**Note**: 
* The order of the keywords do **not** matter.
* A task description is a match only if it contains **all** the keywords.

Example:   
* `find boss guild event`

Finds task with description: `help guild register for the boss event`

Format: `find [keywords delimited by a single space]`

### 3.7 Undoing or redoing commands
**Undoable** commands can be undone or redone.  
Undoable commands: 
* `todo`, `event`, `deadline` (Adding tasks)
* `delete` (Deleting tasks)
* `done` (Marking tasks as done)    

Note that if the user makes certain changes after undoing,  
by calling any of the Undoable commands mentioned above,  
all information pertaining to the most recent undo command  
and beyond will be lost. (As per Microsoft Windows implementation)  

Format: `undo`, `redo`

### 3.8 Clearing the window
Clears the window of all dialog-boxes and outputs a message.

Format: `clear`

### 3.9 Exiting the program
Displays the exit message and closes the program.

Format: `bye`
